*Introduction*

WhyLabs AI Observability

WhyLabs is the leading observability platform trusted by high-performing
teams to control

the behavior of ML & data applications. ML teams across healthcare,
financial services,

logistics, e-commerce, and others use WhyLabs to:

____
• Monitor and observe model performance for predictive ML models,
supporting

delayed ground truth and custom performance metrics

• Monitor and observe data quality in ML model inputs, Feature Stores,
batch and

streaming pipelines

• Detect and root cause common ML issues such as drift, data quality,
model

performance degradation, and model bias

• Explain the cause of model performance degradation using tracing and
feature

importance

• Detect and root cause common LLM issues such as toxicity, PII leakage,
malicious

activity, and indications of hallucinations
____

WhyLabs Overview Video

If you enjoy learning about software in video format, checkout our
youtube channel for

workshops and tutorials. Here is one of our most popular workshop
videos:

WhyLabs in the ML Lifecycle

WhyLabs is a purpose-built ML Observability platform. The main goal of
the WhyLabs

platform is to create feedback loops which help ML teams continuously
improve and

control production ML models.

image:vertopal_1efb5154375948fe94d9f9cd9e332267/media/image1.png[image,width=624,height=365]

WhyLabs architecture at a glance

WhyLabs observability solution is a hybrid SaaS, consisting of two major
components:

____
1.Telemetry agents: open source libraries that deploy directly into the
user environment. These libraries collect privacy-preserving telemetry
data that describes the health of models and datasets.

2.Platform: the hosted platform that operates on the telemetry data
generated by the agents. The platform offers a rich user interface for
visualizing model and data health, configuring and detecting issues, and
sending alerts.
____

image:vertopal_1efb5154375948fe94d9f9cd9e332267/media/image2.png[image,width=624,height=356]

WhyLabs can also be deployed into the VPC. Contact our team if you are
interested in a

custom VPC deployment.

What does WhyLabs monitor?

WhyLabs Platform enables monitoring for a wide range of use cases:

____
• Predictive ML models: all of the common ML model types

• Generative AI models: LLMs

• Data health: streaming and batch data pipelines

• ML features & feature stores: tabular data, text, images, and audio
____

image:vertopal_1efb5154375948fe94d9f9cd9e332267/media/image3.png[image,width=624,height=354]

Resources

To learn more about WhyLabs:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
a|
____
• +
• +
• +
• +
•
____

•

•

•

•

•

•

a|
____
Read abou +
Watch us: Chat to us: +
Follow us: +
Meet with us:

[.underline]#Resources#
____

|===

ith Certainty
